so a question posed to James Aspie on
his Instagram just lately
James Aspie was asked what type of vegan
activism are you doing lately and his
answer was I made this post on Facebook
and now I'm answering questions he's
answering questions that people provided
below and in response to the image he
posted on Facebook and the image is of
him eating sushi in a state of undress
showing off his horribly mistranslated
Chinese tattoos no matter how much or
how little money these people are
donating to James ASPI in that case the
budget is unknown do you think he could
bring about the same outcomes for half
as much money the most recent figures
I've seen for the vegan activist
organization DX e to Kardashian
everywhere $800,000 for you those are
somewhat at a date it's quite possible
to Nell over a million for years the
level of public support has been growing
when you think about what DXE did in the
last year do you think you could get
that done for $400,000
instead of $800,000 if we just took the
budget and cut it in half conversely how
much more do you think DXE would
accomplish if people donated twice as
much money
James ASPI same question I'll give you
my opinion I think they'd accomplished
exactly the same amount if they had half
as much money or twice as much money
right so this is both a sort of
technical and bureaucratic element of
politics but it's also an ethical
element of politics and it touches us
directly in a small movement like
veganism or so much of what we do is
donation driven it's also part of the
critique of how your
Rossi's state bureaucracies school
bureaucracies like large universities
how they spend money when they're given
a bottomless budget when they do
bottomless fundraising when they do zero
base budgeting zero base fundraising
okay so we're gonna talk this through
briefly sorry to say hey admit it really
is a profound element of life in the
21st century as well as a practical
concern when you're talking these people
face to face and I think there are many
people in this audience right now even
if only 500 people see this video I'm
not joking there are people in this
audience who speak to James ASPI there
are people in this audience who speak to
the leaders of the right to action
everywhere I know there are people here
who are much less than seven degrees of
separation removed from the different
examples we're using here and other
examples that are just as valid the due
to time constraints are not being
mentioned right one one final example
where I'm very directly aware of the
costs and budgeting involved there's a
well-known youtube channel run by a guy
named dr. Greger
all right to my knowledge his budget is
now in excess of two million US dollars
per year the last YouTube video I made
about him
I had the annual report from the year
before which is 1.5 million US dollars
do you think that you could do the same
job he's doing here on YouTube for just
1 million for 50% for half of the budget
conversely switched around what if we
double his budget whatever raises to 4
million how would that change the
outcome how would that change the
product okay I'm a hundred percent
confident that I can do everything James
asked me does for less than half the
price I'm a hundred percent confident I
can do everything that dr. Greger does
here on YouTube for much much less than
1 million dollars per year all right now
when it comes to DXE direct action
everywhere so I'm gonna talk us through
a little bit of detail all right there
are some real costs all right one of the
things direct action everywhere does is
host conferences
hosting a conference cost money right I
proposed to my followers and friends and
colleagues here on YouTube a couple
years ago that I host the conference I
had a little bit of money in the bank I
was going to pay for it entirely out of
my own pocket all right now let's say
we're talking about hosting a conference
here in Victoria BC Canada I was gonna
say Vancouver but why should I take the
ferry why should I travel okay let's say
we're gonna host the conference here and
let's say I proposed a budget and I
asked you in my audience for donations
let's say I proposed a budget of $5,000
but we're doing this as project specific
funding it's not zero base budgeting
it's not bottomless fundraising where I
say donate as much as possible right so
I'm setting an itemized list of why this
costs $5,000 let's just say you know let
me just pause the note in Toronto I was
involved with conferences that were
organized I think they had a budget of
$500
I mean I've been involved in some very
very humble conferences where the total
budget is very very little and that is
also possible right but let's suppose
when you when you actually budget this
out when you actually a project specific
funding we say this is what I want to
accomplish front does notice it's
possible I would even say something
specific and say you know what there's
something else we wanted to do but that
would cost $10,000 and someone might get
in touch with me and say you know what I
see your vision I see that for an extra
five thousand dollars you can rent a
sports stadium which we do have a sports
stadium here in Victoria that's empty
about three hundred and twenty days a
year it's a real example do you know
what you can hold this in the sports you
know I think that's a great idea it's a
terrible idea
but hypothetically someone might see a
specific item and they might say look
they have an extra $5,000 they want to
pay for that goal they think that's a
better way to do it but you know what
else happens you also get economization
in practice someone might be looking at
the budget that's proposed say hey look
you're looking at spending $3,000 out of
the 5,000 just on renting this space at
a hotel you
the space where the conference is going
to happen you know like an actual
boardroom type of setting in a hotel or
whatever and they say you know what
their family owns a big building here
let's say it's a barn say they have an
abandoned barn say you know what
for just one thousand dollars why don't
we just spend $1,000 on IKEA furniture
let's just furnish this barn for the
conference I do the conference the error
and not do it at the at the at this
hotel and there could be a savings and
it could be charming
there could be opportunities to save
money that come in right um and I have
seen I didn't attend person I've seen
vegan conferences that were literally
held in barns that were held in
abandoned factories it can be done
there's no lower limit to the cost for
these things just also why it's worth
asking could you do this for half as
much funny therapy often the answer is
yes with maybe some inconveniences if we
hold this in a barn where we're gonna go
to a bathroom maybe that's why it costs
a thousand dollars rather than nothing
to have to pay for a portable toilets
you know they have to maybe there's some
money that needs to be spent to make the
barn viable and maybe they have to set
up some heating I don't know it too deep
into details okay but what I notice and
this is the sense in which bottomless
fundraising is profoundly corruption but
it's profoundly corrupting to human
nature it's profoundly corrupting to
these projects and in practice all of
the conference's I know of that direct
action ever hosted they ask people to
donate to attend they ask people to
donate to participate they ask people to
pay money to be one of the speakers
whereas when I was inviting a conference
pardon me
when I was organizing a conference and
when other people invited me to speak at
their conferences the discussion was
always about the speakers or the
participants being paid most notably the
cost of airplane tickets maybe something
for the hotel so if I'm invited to
participate in a conference in Europe
which has happened once since this
channel started the discussion was about
them paying for my airplane ticket than
paying for my hotel room I was invited
to participate in a conference in New
York City it's about them paying me not
me
donate
money to them right whereas DXE because
their fundraising all the time against a
bottomless budget and some infinite
horizon right they're turning this into
a fundraising opportunity without with
realizing it all right um project based
funding it might not seem like a
standard of moral purity but what's
built into this is precisely a deadline
an objective standard of adequacy a
standard of success or failure when you
have a finite project a finite budget
you're raising money for you know how
much is enough this is a profound
ethical importance dr. Greger is asking
for more donations right now and nobody
nobody except me has stood up and said
two million dollars is enough how will
he know how will he know when he has
enough if you keep giving him more money
he'll find ways to spend it and you know
again let's be so critical here if I
were stupid enough to do bottomless fund
budgeting bottomless fund raising for a
for a conference and people gave me a
hundred thousand dollars I might feel
like now I'm in a position where I have
to find a way to spend that money you
know and for a lot of people
psychologically it's more slippery than
that oh they just think I'm gonna raise
as much money as possible and I'm gonna
make this event as big and impressive as
possible government bureaucrats do this
also right how much money you gonna give
NASA whether it's a scientific research
organization or a university they get
into the mindset of raising as much
money as possible and then spending that
money often in ostentatious ways often
in counterproductive ways to prove to
show you where the money went
like oh yeah people donated all this
money so we had a fireworks display it
really it really does go
stuff like that people give us all this
money so we decided to do something
ostentatious so we could try to appear
in the newspaper on the TV news or
something right we started to get the
mentality of oh if people donated
$100,000 to us it perverts fundamentally
the goal why this conference was being
held in the first place right there's
some other function there okay
and I would say that's happened already
with the three examples I've given you
of dr. Greger of direct action
everywhere and of James SP okay if human
nature were perfect this is a more
difficult question ask what would happen
when those groups doing the fundraising
said we have enough I was in that
position I did a fundraiser and had
thousands of dollars pouring in within
just 24 hours and I stopped the
fundraiser I stopped the fundraiser
the minute it got to enough and had
later had to regret that because the
exchange rate changed and so on like it
was so close to being enough to pay the
lawyers fees that was due but was like
okay I should have let it go for another
500 bucks or something then all kinds of
people said to me oh you're crazy you
know you could have got another ten
thousand dollars I mean you know
donations were pouring in and there was
public excitement there was hype here on
YouTube people were going to really
donate a lot of money for this okay I
didn't want a lot of money all right
I wanted enough there was a specific
function there was a specific court case
specific cost attached to that that I
was trying to pay for right no more and
no less and there shouldn't be any
ethical question of how would that court
case have gone if you paid twice as much
money or half as much money so on and so
forth all right if people were perfectly
moral what what would James ask me do
with the money or donating to him right
now and he doesn't disclose how much
money is getting it may be very humble I
don't know if he's getting five five
hundred dollars a month or five thousand
dollars a month or whatever it may be I
don't know but as soon as we know what
his
project is what it is you're donating
for if you're building a bridge let's
find out how much the bridge costs let's
find out when it's built and then we can
cut the ticker tape and celebrate that
the bridge is over with right the
problem is when you are funding the
permanent vacation lifestyle the budget
is bottomless
there is no measurable measurable
outcome were in to an economic and
ethical realm where we're dealing with
the infinitude of human greed and
self-indulgence right as opposed to the
finitude of trying to accomplish
something in a specific project all
right
I know it's appealing to imagine that
you've embarked on some mission like
feeding starving hordes of orphans and
believe me in places like Cambodia and
Laos I've seen projects that had
extensible goals that were that infinite
and engaged in bottomless fundraising
accordingly and it corrupted them all so
there is a famous case I can probably
google around and give you guys a link
to to an article here it's a famous case
of a woman in Cambodia who started a
shelter for female victims of sexual
slavery these were in theory girls who
were somehow abducted and forced into
prostitution and the story she pitched
because ultimately a lot of this
fundraising takes place in the internet
21st century the story she pitched had a
bunch of strange question marks in it if
you know anything about twenty three
what Cambodia oh there were a number of
things that make you raise an eyebrow I
think that doesn't quite sound possible
or that timeline doesn't quite add up
and sooner or later an investigative
reporter one of the last investigative
journalists on earth went through and
proved that every single claim this
woman made about her own life was false
that in fact she had never been a
prostitute she had never been a victim
of international
trafficking and all of the details at
every stage of the story were false now
how much money was she raising what was
the objective infinite how many victims
of safe sex drafting her mother in
Cambodia possibly I know a scientist who
did research and that quantifying it the
real answer is very finite indeed there
isn't an ether you're not talking an
infinite number of victims of a social
problem like that it's a very finite
number you can estimate research nobody
wants to read but from their perspective
for infinite if you give us ten thousand
dollars will spit will find a way to
spend outdoors and give us a hundred
thousand dollars they'll find a way to
spend on a thousand again even examples
like dr. Gregor he's soon enough got up
to millions per year million millions
per year doing what oh um
then there was a next step of this
scandal because of course defenders of
this charity said well maybe this
particular woman who founded the charity
and asked for donations maybe she
herself was a fraud but she must have
helped countless countless victims of
sexual slavery sex trafficking
prostitution and you know when the books
were finally opened up there were
criminal charges involved here and
someone the answer was zero there wasn't
even one example of one girl or one
woman who had ever been helped by this
charity who had any history of being
sexually trafficked or even just being a
prostitute maybe were predisposed to
believe in this this mode of donating
money with no stated outcome no
particular deadline no particular
project that the project manager is
responsible to institute maybe we're
conditioned to accept that because of
the last thousand years of Christianity
right when you donate to the church what
are you donating for to build something
in particular there's always something
to build to pay for some priests
eat lunch or dinner there's always some
priest who needs his belly filled right
there's no please there's always some
orphan somewhere the church can suggest
to you that your donations but there's
always some good work somewhere and no
one wants to actually sit down and
evaluate when you pay the church where
does your money go what are you really
bankrolling and the fundamental question
is when will it stop when will enough be
enough and the answer is only when
people like you and I stand up and say
this is enough